For this exercise, please create a portfolio
that adheres to all 10 or most
of our diversified model portfolio rules.
This might take you a little while,
but please take your time with this.
And once you select the right combination of
ETFs and/or stocks, bonds, commodities
to invest in for this exercise,
then I recommend coming up with a
percent of your portfolio for each
instead of thinking about it in dollar terms.
Think about it in percent terms.
For example,
if I hypothetically assume that I had $100,000 to invest,
it would be easier for me and for most of us to think of
single stock investments as being $5,000 or 5% of.
Think of it in percent terms.
If you have $72,000 to invest,
don't think of it in terms of,
well, 10% of 72,000, 7,200.
Don't do it that way.
I want you to think of it in percent terms.
So you have 100% to invest, just break it down that way.
And before you get started, please take a look here at
the diversification and model portfolio
part of your investment
portfolio management dashboard.
Just look at column Bv.
This will make more sense once you go there.
Look at column Bv on your portfolio.
Okay, good.
In this last table on the right here, meaning Bv,
you can see that it will really help you to understand
if you're adhering to your portfolio diversification rules,
which, again, I've placed here in an orange box
on the right side.
Now, if we unhide row seven,
we see the definition of the data titles.
If you entered your age in the settings
gray button place in the spreadsheet,
this cell here that I'm currently pointing at will tell you
what your risk management limits are in terms of
what is the most you can deploy in more risky assets.
So, for me, since I'm 45,
I can put 65% in the more risky assets.
And I have no more than 5% of my investments in
any more risky categorized investment class.
Now, I think it makes a lot more sense for me
just to jump right into this and explain exactly
how to do this.
If you want, you can go and look at exercise number 24 here
for the rules.
Read this if you'd like to.
I'm gonna explain exactly how to do this
in this example right here.
But again, you can read this if you want to.
I think it might be easier to understand if
you kind of follow me going through this.
Because there's a lot of steps here.
So what you do is you have to come up with a list of
investments to go into your portfolio,
and I'll show you how I did it in a second.
And then what you have to do is
go here and classify them as less risky or more risky,
meaning each investment,
as we explained in the previous lesson.
And if you entered in your age on the settings page,
this will update here,
and then this will just basically tell you
if you're within your risk parameter limits.
Change your age and then come back and read this
and it'll make more sense.
So let me show you how I went about and did this.
We got a lot of rules to adhere to for this exercise.
What I did, actually, was I created another tab here,
and I recommend you create your own tab
or spreadsheet as well and do this.
And it took me a while to do it,
but I went through all 10 of our rules,
and you don't have to use all of these,
just use some of them if you want to,
or all, completely up to you.
I feel comfortable using them all,
but they're my rules, so I can stick to them,
but you might have different rules.
And what I did was I came up with
65%, see there, the sum?
65% higher risk investments,
and then 35% lower risk investments.
And the way I know that they're higher or lower
is based on the methodology that we
talked about in the previous lesson,
which is also mentioned here.
We're all different when it comes to risk management,
but for me I'm quite conservative.
I like to have no more than 5%
of my net worth or invested net worth
invested in any one particular security.
And so, remember before I mentioned that
I want you to think of this in percent terms
instead of dollar terms?
It's just easier this way.
So in the hypothetical example here
that I'm gonna go through with you,
I have $100,000, hypothetically, US to invest.
So it's five grand in each one,
so 65 grand in higher risk level,
35 grand in lower risk level because my age is 45,
and we know that 110 minus 45 equals 65.
Just watch the last lecture if that doesn't make sense.
So for the higher risk,
remember, I said no more than 10% in commodities.
So I added two ETFs here.
The Silver ETF and the Gold ETF,
and I'll show you how I did this
in Yahoo Finance in a second.
And then I did a couple of stock funds,
I did a 5% fund from Canada,
I did 5% fund from Italy.
And then what I do is I have a growth fund ETF.
These are ETFs, you know why I like ETFs,
'cause the low fees.
That's the ticker for the growth,
and then for individual stocks, I got four of them here
adding up to 20%,
and that's the max risk I want to take on
in individual stocks.
So I've got Apple, which is a tech stock, obviously,
Caterpillar, which is an industrial,
Goldman Sachs, which is financial, and Lululemon,
which is retail.
And then I've got 10% in REITs,
real estate investment trusts.
And I've got Vanguard and Schwab,
two fantastic ETF companies with low fees.
And then I threw in a sector funds, a healthcare ETF
because I don't have any healthcare exposure here.
And then I had here a smaller cap fund ETF.
And smaller caps are more risky,
but it's my more risky bucket so I'm okay.
I'm within 5% for all of them, that's cool, good.
Let's move on to the lower risk levels.
So I have several bond funds here.
I've got a five to 10 year
investment grade corporate bond fund,
that's investment grade, which means it's highly rated.
So it's A or above for us.
Rated by Moody's and S&P.
And then I've got a US government treasury bond fund,
which is lower risk, of course.
And then I've got a muni fund, municipal bond risk.
Municipal bonds, as we mentioned, are tax-free,
at least in the United States, in many areas they can be.
And that's to get people to incentivize to invest in them.
This one here is very highly rated, A and above,
and so I'm not worried about default with this one,
that's why I put it in the lower risk category.
And then we have the treasury inflation protected securities
ETF which we talked about earlier in the course.
And then I've got a couple of value stock fund ETFs here.
I've got core S&P 500
US value, it's just value stocks from there.
And then I've got international.
Remember, we like to have international exposure here,
at least 20% if we can.
International value.
And then I've got large cap value here as well.
These are the larger companies.
And larger companies are lower risk usually
because they're more mature
and you don't get as high of a return.
Let's take a look for fun at my international exposure.
So I'll just highlight them here.
That's international.
Let's see what else do I have that's international.
Italy is international.
Canada, represent, is international.
Let's see, do I have anything else?
Well, you might say,
"Chris, I thought you said we need 20% international."
And there actually is 20% international because
when you look at larger cap US stocks,
they have a very large percent
of their exposure to international.
I think I'm okay here.
If you look at Apple, Caterpillar, Goldman, et cetera
for their international exposure, it's quite high.
So I think I'm easily at my 20% here, which is fine.
I went through all these.
I'm adhering to every single one of them,
but let me show you now
one thing I want to talk about, which is fees.
We want our fees, remember, to be less than .5%.
And, obviously, fees are not going to apply
to the stocks, the individual stocks.
Hopefully, when you trade or you purchase these stocks
or whatever stocks you pick,
and please, do your own research and don't rely on me.
When you pick your own stocks,
hopefully, you're paying low commission fees,
whichever brokerage it is you're using.
And again, if you don't know
where to find a brokerage to invest in
wherever you're based in the world,
just talk to your bank and ask them to recommend one.
Okay, great.
Now what we're gonna do is we're gonna go
over to Yahoo Finance.
I'm gonna show you the portfolio I made.
And we're gonna check to see that the fees
are less than .5% for all of these.
So let me go over here.
Okay, great.
So I created this portfolio here,
and I actually edited the view,
and then I sorted as well, I reordered.
And I reordered so that it looks just like this.
See?
These are SLV, GLD, EWC.
SLV, GLD, EWC, good.
And I did that because I want to be able
to manage it within the portfolio.
It's just more intuitive that way, for me at least.
And now the markets are live, it's the day after Christmas,
it's the 26th.
And by the way, I did not work yesterday.
You can see that the stock prices are changing here.
Okay, great.
So what I also did was I put
all 20 of these stocks,
or investments, I should say,
there's all 20 of these.
I opened up all 20 at 5% each to equal 100%
in 20 tabs here.
And the way you do that
is right click and go, Open Link in New Tab, of course.
And we'll go there in a second,
but you can also, when you make your portfolio,
and for me, the top 13 are higher risk,
and then the bottom seven are lower risk,
just like over here
in this portfolio here.
Watch this.
These ones here,
13 is the count,
seven is the count.
Okay, good, let's go back.
And you can also scroll down,
this is actually pretty useful.
I can scroll down and read news just
on these items, it's awesome.
So if you want to keep up to date on news on your portfolio,
well, here's all the news items.
Right here.
It's great.
And as I mentioned before,
if you see a sponsored story like this,
don't click on that, please, it's a biased story.
Don't click on that.
And if anybody has
strong editorial opinions in these articles, ignore them
because I want you to do your own research, please.
Okay, great.
So now what we're gonna do is, I'm gonna look to see that
these are all less than .5% expense ratio-wise.
First one here is SLV.
I'm gonna go in order.
Here we go, we're at .5 or below.
That's fine.
And I'm going to go into very fast forward mode here,
and I'll join you in a second when we go through this
so I don't waste your time.
Okay, back to normal speed Chris.
I want to mention that I got a bunch of the
investment ETFs from this awesome document
called ishares-product-list,
which I included earlier in the course.
Please go to the resources section if you want to find it.
And then all I did was I just searched on
certain items here.
So I searched on the word value,
and there's a bunch of incidences of the word value,
you see all these matches in yellow.
And then I searched on the word bond.
A bunch of them came up.
Tons, obviously.
Then I searched on the word growth for growth stocks.
I did the same thing for small cap, large cap, sectors,
et cetera, I think you get the idea.
And this is just from iShares.
Let me go to the first page here.
There we go, it's from iShares,
and you can go and get
commensurate or similar menus from other places,
like Schwab's website, Vanguard, et cetera.
Okay, great.
So, I also went down and checked to see that the holdings
were all relatively lower risk.
Like, check this out, this is awesome.
So this is the last entry I have, JKF.
One of the holdings, large holding here,
is Berkshire Hathaway, and that's Warren Buffett's
investment, it's pretty cool, pretty cool.
And then for all of the bond-based funds,
you could click on holdings
and then just double check that,
for the most part, almost all of the investments are
above A, which they are, it's pretty good,
and you can look through the rest of those if you want.
Okay, great, now one more thing I want to show you
is just like we did before.
We're gonna take this, highlight them all,
copy, and then we will go back,
and then let me go over to our settings page here.
Settings.
And then we're gonna paste that data
like we have a number of times before in this course,
we're gonna paste that data directly
into this cell right here,
which I already did, but I'll do it again, watch this.
And see how it changed a little bit.
Every week or two, or month, or three, or whatever it is,
you can update this data if you want to.
I don't want you to get in the habit of
checking it daily though because I don't want you
to be a trader because traders
usually underperform massively.
I want you to be a longterm investor.
So if we go to your portfolio now,
and let me just close this field for a second,
and you can always open it to explain what each item is.
It's taking a second, sorry.
There's a lot of data here.
And so, we can see my portfolio is here,
that we just created there.
It's pretty cool, huh?
Pretty cool.
And we could see the daily change in the price today.
Today is December 26th, 2017.
And let's scroll over.
And we don't have data for everything here.
I actually made this bigger here, see this?
Because I had more data I entered in.
So let me just explode this, or open it up again.
And there's not gonna be data for every single item because
they're not all stocks.
Some of these are obviously funds, bond funds,
you know, some of them will issue dividends.
Lululemon does not issue dividends yet either
because it's more of a growth stock at this point.
Okay, great.
And so what I did was,
about five minutes ago
before I started recording this lecture,
I put in the purchase price of all the companies.
And they all moved a little bit since.
The last price on SLV was $15.60,
whereas I purchased it at 15.59,
and you just hard code those in because it's white.
And here's the purchase date, and they're all today.
And no, we have not owned
any of them for more than a year.
Obviously, we just bought them today.
If I changed it to two days ago,
it'll say two days, see there?
Ctrl Z, undo that.
And again, the reason I have this
is because I want you to get
into the habit of owning things for more than a year
for many reasons, one of which
is if it's not in a tax-deferred accounts
or tax-free accounts, then you'll pay higher taxes,
usually, if you own stuff for less than a year.
And then here, I own about $5,000 of each of these
because my portfolio size is $100,000.
This looks like I lost $4 today.
Don't listen to me, you'll lose $4.
Sorry, bad joke.
But anyway, so.
If I put my currency as non-US dollars,
it will get converted automatically right here,
and I'll show you how in a second.
And so today, since I put on this position,
I lost $12 in the past five minutes,
and please don't look at stuff short term
like I'm just mentioning here, but $12 Lululemon.
This one I lost $4, and I made $6 on this fund.
And then I made a whole dollar on Apple,
which doesn't even cover a song now.
It used to be 99 cents, it's higher now.
Okay, great.
So I think you get the idea.
What else do we have here?
If we scroll over to risk management,
every stock is 5%, that's fine, I'm within the limit.
If it's over 5%, it's bad.
I'm violating that risk management covenant.
And then here for the sector,
it only picked up three stocks for sectors here,
and the reason is,
and I've got logic set up here,
and if you're a nerd like me,
you can check out the logic on that.
Basically, only three of the companies are in the S&P 500.
So those are the three sectors these are in.
Tech stock, industrial, finance stock.
And so I only have 5% of individual exposure there,
the rest is not categorized.
The sector driver for tech,
and this is automatically generated, is product cycle
for Apple.
Caterpillar.
When Apple releases a new iPhone,
usually a stock boost because of that.
For Caterpillar, if GDP does well, then
big companies buy more machines from Caterpillar,
and then low unemployment I put there for Gold.
And it's debatable, though, with financial services.
Okay, great.
And we've talked about this before,
and you can look in the course for sector D
to see the lecture on this section.
And I'll scroll over here.
Now, diversification, this is section G.
So I have the name of all those companies right here.
And then I've got the position exposure,
the size of the position,
and this is where I actually had to go
and categorize everything.
Remember here earlier in this particular lesson,
when I mentioned, if you enter in your age
in the settings tab, this will tell you,
what percent of your assets can be higher risk.
And so I actually had to go through,
and that's automatically generated, and so is this,
and this is white so it's not yet entered in.
And so for all of these,
and I sorted it from more risky to less risky.
Remember, over here.
And it's also the same sort I have in Yahoo Finance,
and you can pause that if you're interested.
This is not my real portfolio, it's just an example.
See, it's all here as well.